---
layout: post
title:  "Northwestern Mutual seeks interns for program on campus"
date:   2022-04-14 21:54:30 -0600
categories: jekyll update
image: post2.jpeg
---
Northwestern Mutual is taking up residence in the heart of campus, where the leading financial services company hopes to boost its university presence and expand its number of Huskie interns.

An Open House mixer introducing the company’s new space to faculty and students will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. Thursday, April 21, at the 71 North Partnership Studio, located in the lower level of Founders Memorial Library.

The company is seeking to fill internships for its top-rated program. Each year, the four offices which make up Northwestern Mutual Chicagoland manage as many as 80 interns from different universities.

Space in the 71 North Partnership Studio is being leased from the university to provide a place for NIU interns to work while at school during the fall and spring semesters (with summer internships located on company sites). Northwestern Mutual expects to have company leaders on campus to work with students twice per week.

“We’re thrilled to welcome Northwestern Mutual to our community of innovators at 71 North,” said Luke Sebby, NIU director of innovation partnerships. “These conveniently located internships will help our students gain practical, real-world experiences, as well as valuable networking opportunities with our community members.”

Juniors and seniors in any major are welcome to apply for the internships, although applicants will benefit from a background in finance, marketing or sales. Qualified applicants must be coachable, possess strong communications skills and be open to learning about financial planning.

On the job, the interns will “test drive the role of a financial representative” in helping clients achieve financial security. They will be provided with training, development and one-on-one mentoring.

“We’re aiming to have 10-plus NIU students utilizing this space throughout the academic year,” said Financial Advisor Jason Frano, managing director of the Northwestern Mutual office in Naperville.

“This is an opportunity for students to jumpstart their careers, while also having a hand in making the lives of their clients better,” he added. “Interns will learn all the ins and outs of financial planning from seasoned financial professionals.”

The company’s internship program has summer, fall and spring start dates. Students can intern for one semester or multiple consecutive semesters.

Northwestern Mutual is no stranger to NIU. The Fortune 500 company has partnered with NIU Career Services for more than five years and more recently with the Professional Sales Program in the College of Business. The company currently has one NIU intern, with six more slated to begin this summer.

“We are looking forward to growing our partnership in preparing students for their futures,” Frano said.

Karinne Bredberg, NIU’s assistant director for innovation operations, said the partnership demonstrates the talents and skills of Huskies.

“The desire to have an on-campus presence shows Northwestern Mutual’s commitment to its internship program,” she said. “It also reflects well on the strength of our students who have interned with them in the past.”